Let us learn about principles of object oriented programming.
These are the set of principles of object oriented programming that is abstraction encapsulation inheritance
and polymorphism.
As I was comparing software development or software engineering with other engineering disciplines, we
want the software development should also be done just like other engineering right.
So the object orientation supports a programmer to develop any application.
Just like how other engineers develop their products like electronic engineer it is making some device
or an automobile engineer is making some vehicle, so software engineers also want to follow their approach.
That same approach.
So that approach gives these four principles.
Let us see how see how see First of all.
when we come to software development that is programming.
What are the main elements of programming.
There are two elements of programming.
What is that.
First is data.
And second one is operations on that data that is functions
the functions perform operations on the data.
There may be many functions and there may be a huge collection of data.
So when you develop a software, software is for  performing operations on the data only so programs
are are based on the data.
So data is primary then the operations on the data are the set of functions on them.
So our program contain these.
like if you take a car, like if you take an example of auto-mobile car which will have metal
or wires or cables and plastic or fiber.
These are the things that are used for making an vehicle if you talk about electronic then electronics
circuitry ICD or boards are used for making an electronic device.
same way it what is use for making a software.
We need data, and the functions on the data. now let us learn about
These principles.
First of all abstraction, abstraction.
So if you look at a car example then all the mechanism of the car will be hidden inside some cabin
or bonet and what is visible outside is the steering and the gear shaft and pedals for acceleration
and all so this are visible to the user.
Everything is hidden inside, how the car is working.
User need not know the driver of a car need not know how it is working.
Now same way if I take the example of a television complete circuitry is inside the box and what is
visible outside, the buttons, touch buttons or buttons or the remote control buttons for operating
it everything is inside.
So what is visible outside, functions and he need not know how that television is working inside.
So that is abstraction, when you don't know the internal details.
That is nothing but abstraction.
So same way in software also we want to achieve abstraction.
We don't want to show internal detail.
So these mechanisms in the functions we don't want to see the implementation of the function,  how they are
working but just we want the names of the function so how it is done in object oriented programming
using C++.
We write these things inside one class.
I will just write the name of the class as my. So class will contain data and the function so what is visible
here.
only functions. now here user.
remember one thing, who is a user of a class, program only, not the user for software.
We are talking about programmer only, suppose I wrote the class.
Then the other programmer is myself only, I should bother about just calling the function.
I should not bother about how those functions are working.
Suppose I wrote the function today tommorow I need not look into that detail of how the function is
working.
I wrote it and finish, just I should enjoy using it in my programs, that's it. whether I should wrote it or
somebody else wrote it.
So we don't want to know the internal detail,  just the function name should be sufficient.
That is the meaning of abstraction, and we can group the set of functions together with the help of class.
So that's what encapsulation so this class gives two things that is abstraction also and encapsulation
abstraction in what sense.
Just we get  the function name.
We don't know the workings of a function.
Only we know it  when we are writing. when we are using we don't know how they are working.
Like suppose printf function you have using C language, thousands of times.
you may have use but ever wondered how it is working, how it is displaying on the screen.
No that is abstract for you.
So without knowing how the printf is working you have used it many times so that this abstraction
for you. does it mean that you cannot write the function like printf by yourself.
Yes.
If you study you can write a function like printf by yourself.
So same way when some programming has written a class or a piece of code for some purpose.
Then just you should enjoy using it on the program.
You should be.
That is include the library and you should use the objects of the class and call the functions, that's it.
you need not worry how they are working once you sure that these are perfect.
Just use them.
Next what, so class help us achieving abstraction, then next is encapsulation So what is an encapsulation.
So that's already I told you that television box is a  packed box everything is inside.
So what is hiding inside data.
What is visible outside functions.
So we have combined the data, data means what   the cables and IC's and everything whatever is there in T.V
is data and what the buttons are visible.
That is function or same way you  will go to a bank, bank as an object.
If you see, then all your account details and your cash and everything inside that is hidden inside
all your records are hidden inside.
Just you call the function, deposit withdraw.
You can't say that I am having one hundred crore in my account in this bank.
I will directly enter into the locker rooms and everything take the cash by myself.
No you can not do that you have to follow a function.
Same way you can not know,
No you cannot say that I am a elec. engineer I know how television works.
I'll open the box and connect the cables and use it.
You cannot do that.
You should use function. to make it safe from mishandling not security.
Most of the people say secure, it is not security.
See I wrote my class.
I am using it.
So then from whom I am securing it.
So it is just avoiding it from mishandling like how you declare constant variables, so we don't
want to modify the value. for us only so saying way its not security.
It's for avoiding mishandling.
We hide the data and make the functions visible and we put  the things together at one place, encapsulation
data and the functions together so that's it a class helps the data and the functions together.
That is encapsulation and along with this, in classes we make data as private.
So that's what I was telling you.
This is not for security.
We want to avoid
The mishandling of the data so we make it as private and we make functions as public, so you can see
that in television, everything is hidden inside.
The functions are coming out, the buttons are coming out, in a car every thing is hidden inside
only the dashboard is coming out.
So functions are visible you can use those functions so we hide the data and show the functions and
we also achieve data hiding along with encapsulation.
So data hiding comes as  a part of encapsulation.
Let us say, I have written a class for something called car.
Actually it's the example from auto mobile.
We don't make a class for a car, but for understanding the concept we make the class for car right.
We may be bringing classes for a student, we need to making a class for employee or custom order
product or passenger or  a flight or a journey or a trip or a driver, we'll be making classes or
objects like this.
Depending on the system for which you are developing a software but for our understanding purpose.
we use cars and these television as an example for making understand the concept of object orientation.
So let me stick to car, I wrote a  class for car.
Now let's talk about inheritance and polymorphism as these two interrelated.
So similarly inheritance and polymorphism are interrelated with the help of car
Example I'll explain.
see suppose you have written a class for a car.
Somebody has a design a car in automobile.
Yes  here we have written  class for car.
Then some that car.
We have BMW so BMW is a car.
So what is BMW What all you finding  in the car that is available here.
So it is inheriting from car.
So somebody maybe or a century back.
Somebody has to design a car with four wheels and the seats and the driver seat driver everything.
And with all the operation that is gearbox and stearing and all these things somebody has a design
this one.
So that design is followed by all the cars in the  world.
So BMW is the car means it is inheriting everything from that car.
That definition that definition.
Then same way, toyota is also a car
and Suzuki is also a car.
So all of these are cars. they are inheriting  all the features of this car plus they have more extra features.
It's not just limited here in automotive engineering we find that BMW they will have their own design
and from that only they will launch one car and then they will launch a new version of that car and a
new version.
So it's nothing but inheritance.
Like if you take a toyota, they will launch a car then from that only they will launch a new model.
So by making some changes in this one or some advancement they will launch a new car, they will not
redesign a car from the beginning again they will launch design a new car from an existing car only
that is inheritance all right.
So we want that  inheritance to be followed in programming.
Also. suppose I have written  a class some class then tomorrow I want another class in which I want all
these features plus extra features so I should be able to inherit, borrow all these features.
So I understand more while doing some programming, than last one polymorphism.
What is this? now just in one  point I can explain you this one.
See if you have to learn driving.
What do you learn BMW or Toyota Suzuki you will learn, if you learn suzuki then you'll think
toyota
I don't know how to drive it.
I should learn again.
No you learn car, if you learn this you can drive this also.
This also, this also, when you drive this you will say I'm driving car when you drive this you will
say I'm  driving a car.
But the way it runs is different the way it drives.
that's polymorphism, that's polymorphism.
So with the help of inheritance we achieve polymorphism right.
The people who are using things need not re-learn them just they've learned something in the upward
part of a hierarchy the upper class in  hierarchy then they can manage all this. same way.
If you know how to use a bowser do you need to learn how to use Chrome or how to use Internet Explorer
Mozilla Firefox or Safari? No.
Once you know how to use one of the browser then you can access internet using any browser, that's what.
Because things are common there when you're using opera  you would not say I'm using opera, you will say I'm
browsing Internet.
when you use chrome you will not say I'm using Chrome you'll say I'm browsing Internet.
So that's what you will say I'm driving it.
that's it.
It's polymorphism.
The name is same the term.
I'm driving a car.
But BMW I'm driving a car.
But toyota.
I'm driving a car.
Suzuki the word that is use is same.
But the work is different, that this what polymorphism is so I will show  you these things more in detail
with the help of code. so in the Coming videos we will see what are classes and objects, what are their
differences how to write a  class how to create objects.
So we learn syntactically.